# EC4308 - Forecasting the Equity Risk Premium (ERP) for Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) ETFs
Project Dates: October 2022 - November 2022
## Disclaimer
This GitHub repository showcases a collaborative group project, where I have undertaken a substantial share of the Python coding work. From data processing to model training and building, as well as ensemble learning, all these Python codes are exclusively my creation. These codes can be understood independently and do not require additional context to be comprehended. However, please note that the R codes used for data extraction and cleaning have not been included in this repository.

This is neither my best nor my proudest work, as I would like to note that the codes are just churning out various models, tuning their hyperparameters and selecting the optimal one based on some evaluation criteria. Despite this, I wanted to share this project as the iterative approach of generating and evaluating models contributed to my learning journey. Therefore, I hope that this will help to foster knowledge exchange and showcase the complete project narrative.

Feel free to reach out if you have questions or if there's anything you'd like to discuss. Thank you for your interest!

## Introduction
The equity risk premium (ERP) helps to set portfolio return expectations and determine asset allocation. A higher premium implies that you would invest a greater share of your portfolio into stocks. The ERP predicts how much a stock will outperform risk-free investments over the long term. A stock that is riskier than the broader market should offer returns even higher than the equity premium. Hence, the higher the ERP, the higher the stock price and therefore the returns.

The main objective of this project is to predict the direction of the iShares MSCI USA ESG Select ETF (NYSEARCA: SUSA) daily equity premium, often known as the daily excess return, using different machine learning methods. In particular, we will compare the prediction accuracy of machine learning methods (Logistic Regression methods, Tree-based Methods, Artificial Neural Networks and Ensemble methods for different classifiers). We decided to work on the direction and not magnitude as the level of daily stock returns is generally regarded as unpredictable. The majority of papers have focused on the forecast accuracy of competing models and examined if there is evidence of predictability, which can lead to economic gains. However, devising successful trading strategies is contingent on the directional accuracy of the underlying models (Iworiso, J., Vrontos, S., 2020).

Past literature largely focused on predicting the equity premium using traditional regression models. Numerous sophisticated linear models including partial least squares (Kelly and Pruitt, 2015), penalized linear models, such as LASSO (Rapach and Zhou, 2013) and principal component regressions (Ludvigson and Ng, 2007) were only used for predicting the direction of stock price movement or the actual returns. Hence, we see an opportunity to combine the two - economic theory and machine learning techniques - in using an array of machine learning methods to predict the daily equity premium.

In addition, while the ultimate business objective is to profit from the predictions of equity premium, there has been increasing interest in sustainable investing that we wanted to incorporate. As investors are becoming more conscientious and socially responsible, it is becoming increasingly important to maximize our profits without harming the environment and society in the process, and that is where Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) investing comes in. In this regard, we chose to forecast the equity premium of the iShares MSCI USA ESG Select ETF instead of the more popular S&P 500 index as the iShares MSCI USA ESG Select ETF was skewed towards firms with ESG scores and had a higher concentration of technology securities.

Well-informed investors require reliable methods for predicting the price indexes of clean energy companies. Yet, there is a noticeable lack of information on the prediction of ESG indexes. Therefore, we are interested in predicting the direction of the ERP. Coupled with the knowledge of the macroeconomic environment and technical analysis, this enables an investor to decide if they would remain invested in the stock market.
